2021/docs/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures.md, before:

# A02:2021 – Cryptographic Failures

## Factors

| CWEs Mapped | Max Incidence Rate | Avg Incidence Rate | Max Coverage | Avg Coverage | Avg Weighted Exploit | Avg Weighted Impact | Total Occurrences | Total CVEs |
|:-------------:|:--------------------:|:--------------------:|:--------------:|:--------------:|:----------------------:|:---------------------:|:-------------------:|:------------:|
| 29          | 46.44%             | 4.49%              | 79.33%       | 34.85%       | 7.29                 | 6.81                | 233,788           | 3,075      |

## Overview

Shifting up one position to #2, previously known as *Sensitive Data
Exposure*, which is more of a broad symptom rather than a root cause,
the focus is on failures related to cryptography (or lack thereof).
Which often lead to exposure of sensitive data. Notable CWEs included
are *CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password*, *CWE-327: Broken or Risky
Crypto Algorithm*, and *CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy* .

## Description 

The first thing is to determine the protection needs of data in transit
and at rest. For example, passwords, credit card numbers, health
records, personal information, and business secrets require extra
protection, mainly if that data falls under privacy laws, e.g., EU's
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), or regulations, e.g.,
financial data protection such as PCI Data Security Standard (PCI DSS).
For all such data:

-   Is any data transmitted in clear text? This concerns protocols such
    as HTTP, SMTP, and FTP. External internet traffic is hazardous.
    Verify all internal traffic, e.g., between load balancers, web
    servers, or back-end systems.

-   Are any old or weak cryptographic algorithms used either by default
    or in older code?

-   Are default crypto keys in use, weak crypto keys generated or
    re-used, or is proper key management or rotation missing?

-   Is encryption not enforced, e.g., are any user agent (browser)
    security directives or headers missing?

-   Does the user agent (e.g., app, mail client) not verify if the
    received server certificate is valid?

See ASVS Crypto (V7), Data Protection (V9), and SSL/TLS (V10)

## How to Prevent

Do the following, at a minimum, and consult the references:

-   Classify data processed, stored, or transmitted by an application.
    Identify which data is sensitive according to privacy laws,
    regulatory requirements, or business needs.

-   Apply controls as per the classification.

-   Don't store sensitive data unnecessarily. Discard it as soon as
    possible or use PCI DSS compliant tokenization or even truncation.
    Data that is not retained cannot be stolen.

-   Make sure to encrypt all sensitive data at rest.

-   Ensure up-to-date and strong standard algorithms, protocols, and
    keys are in place; use proper key management.

-   Encrypt all data in transit with secure protocols such as TLS with
    perfect forward secrecy (PFS) ciphers, cipher prioritization by the
    server, and secure parameters. Enforce encryption using directives
    like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).

-   Disable caching for response that contain sensitive data.

-   Store passwords using strong adaptive and salted hashing functions
    with a work factor (delay factor), such as Argon2, scrypt, bcrypt or
    PBKDF2.

-   Verify independently the effectiveness of configuration and
    settings.

## Example Attack Scenarios

**Scenario #1**: An application encrypts credit card numbers in a
database using automatic database encryption. However, this data is
automatically decrypted when retrieved, allowing a SQL injection flaw to
retrieve credit card numbers in clear text.

**Scenario #2**: A site doesn't use or enforce TLS for all pages or
supports weak encryption. An attacker monitors network traffic (e.g., at
an insecure wireless network), downgrades connections from HTTPS to
HTTP, intercepts requests, and steals the user's session cookie. The
attacker then replays this cookie and hijacks the user's (authenticated)
session, accessing or modifying the user's private data. Instead of the
above they could alter all transported data, e.g., the recipient of a
money transfer.

**Scenario #3**: The password database uses unsalted or simple hashes to
store everyone's passwords. A file upload flaw allows an attacker to
retrieve the password database. All the unsalted hashes can be exposed
with a rainbow table of pre-calculated hashes. Hashes generated by
simple or fast hash functions may be cracked by GPUs, even if they were
salted.

## References

-   [OWASP Proactive Controls: Protect Data
    Everywhere](https://owasp.org/www-project-proactive-controls/v3/en/c8-protect-data-everywhere)

-   [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard (V7,
    9, 10)](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard)

-   [OWASP Cheat Sheet: Transport Layer
    Protection](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html)

-   [OWASP Cheat Sheet: User Privacy
    Protection](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/User_Privacy_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html)

-   OWASP Cheat Sheet: Password and Cryptographic Storage

-   [OWASP Cheat Sheet:
    HSTS](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)

-   OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for weak cryptography


## List of Mapped CWEs

CWE-261 Weak Encoding for Password

CWE-296 Improper Following of a Certificate's Chain of Trust

CWE-310 Cryptographic Issues

CWE-319 Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information

CWE-321 Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key

CWE-322 Key Exchange without Entity Authentication

CWE-323 Reusing a Nonce, Key Pair in Encryption

CWE-324 Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date

CWE-325 Missing Required Cryptographic Step

CWE-326 Inadequate Encryption Strength

CWE-327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm

CWE-328 Reversible One-Way Hash

CWE-329 Not Using a Random IV with CBC Mode

CWE-330 Use of Insufficiently Random Values

CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy

CWE-335 Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator
(PRNG)

CWE-336 Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)

CWE-337 Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)

CWE-338 Use of Cryptographically Weak Pseudo-Random Number Generator
(PRNG)

CWE-340 Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers

CWE-347 Improper Verification of Cryptographic Signature

CWE-523 Unprotected Transport of Credentials

CWE-720 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A9 - Insecure Communications

CWE-757 Selection of Less-Secure Algorithm During Negotiation
('Algorithm Downgrade')

CWE-759 Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt

CWE-760 Use of a One-Way Hash with a Predictable Salt

CWE-780 Use of RSA Algorithm without OAEP

CWE-818 Insufficient Transport Layer Protection

CWE-916 Use of Password Hash With Insufficient Computational Effort

Commit message:

Add legacy protocols
* Add removal of legacy protocols
* Remove ``Apply controls as per the classification`` as it is not clear what is means

2021/docs/A02_2021-Cryptographic_Failures.md, after:

# A02:2021 – Cryptographic Failures

## Factors

| CWEs Mapped | Max Incidence Rate | Avg Incidence Rate | Max Coverage | Avg Coverage | Avg Weighted Exploit | Avg Weighted Impact | Total Occurrences | Total CVEs |
|:-------------:|:--------------------:|:--------------------:|:--------------:|:--------------:|:----------------------:|:---------------------:|:-------------------:|:------------:|
| 29          | 46.44%             | 4.49%              | 79.33%       | 34.85%       | 7.29                 | 6.81                | 233,788           | 3,075      |

## Overview

Shifting up one position to #2, previously known as *Sensitive Data
Exposure*, which is more of a broad symptom rather than a root cause,
the focus is on failures related to cryptography (or lack thereof).
Which often lead to exposure of sensitive data. Notable CWEs included
are *CWE-259: Use of Hard-coded Password*, *CWE-327: Broken or Risky
Crypto Algorithm*, and *CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy* .

## Description 

The first thing is to determine the protection needs of data in transit
and at rest. For example, passwords, credit card numbers, health
records, personal information, and business secrets require extra
protection, mainly if that data falls under privacy laws, e.g., EU's
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), or regulations, e.g.,
financial data protection such as PCI Data Security Standard (PCI DSS).
For all such data:

-   Is any data transmitted in clear text? This concerns protocols such
    as HTTP, SMTP, and FTP. External internet traffic is hazardous.
    Verify all internal traffic, e.g., between load balancers, web
    servers, or back-end systems.

-   Are any old or weak cryptographic algorithms used either by default
    or in older code?

-   Are default crypto keys in use, weak crypto keys generated or
    re-used, or is proper key management or rotation missing?

-   Is encryption not enforced, e.g., are any user agent (browser)
    security directives or headers missing?

-   Does the user agent (e.g., app, mail client) not verify if the
    received server certificate is valid?

See ASVS Crypto (V7), Data Protection (V9), and SSL/TLS (V10)

## How to Prevent

Do the following, at a minimum, and consult the references:

-   Classify data processed, stored, or transmitted by an application.
    Identify which data is sensitive according to privacy laws,
    regulatory requirements, or business needs.

-   Don't store sensitive data unnecessarily. Discard it as soon as
    possible or use PCI DSS compliant tokenization or even truncation.
    Data that is not retained cannot be stolen.

-   Make sure to encrypt all sensitive data at rest.

-   Ensure up-to-date and strong standard algorithms, protocols, and
    keys are in place; use proper key management.

-   Encrypt all data in transit with secure protocols such as TLS with
    perfect forward secrecy (PFS) ciphers, cipher prioritization by the
    server, and secure parameters. Enforce encryption using directives
    like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).

-   Disable caching for response that contain sensitive data.

-   Do not use legacy protocols such as FTP and SMTP for transporting
    sensitive data.

-   Store passwords using strong adaptive and salted hashing functions
    with a work factor (delay factor), such as Argon2, scrypt, bcrypt or
    PBKDF2.

-   Verify independently the effectiveness of configuration and
    settings.

## Example Attack Scenarios

**Scenario #1**: An application encrypts credit card numbers in a
database using automatic database encryption. However, this data is
automatically decrypted when retrieved, allowing a SQL injection flaw to
retrieve credit card numbers in clear text.

**Scenario #2**: A site doesn't use or enforce TLS for all pages or
supports weak encryption. An attacker monitors network traffic (e.g., at
an insecure wireless network), downgrades connections from HTTPS to
HTTP, intercepts requests, and steals the user's session cookie. The
attacker then replays this cookie and hijacks the user's (authenticated)
session, accessing or modifying the user's private data. Instead of the
above they could alter all transported data, e.g., the recipient of a
money transfer.

**Scenario #3**: The password database uses unsalted or simple hashes to
store everyone's passwords. A file upload flaw allows an attacker to
retrieve the password database. All the unsalted hashes can be exposed
with a rainbow table of pre-calculated hashes. Hashes generated by
simple or fast hash functions may be cracked by GPUs, even if they were
salted.

## References

-   [OWASP Proactive Controls: Protect Data
    Everywhere](https://owasp.org/www-project-proactive-controls/v3/en/c8-protect-data-everywhere)

-   [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard (V7,
    9, 10)](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-verification-standard)

-   [OWASP Cheat Sheet: Transport Layer
    Protection](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/Transport_Layer_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html)

-   [OWASP Cheat Sheet: User Privacy
    Protection](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/User_Privacy_Protection_Cheat_Sheet.html)

-   OWASP Cheat Sheet: Password and Cryptographic Storage

-   [OWASP Cheat Sheet:
    HSTS](https://cheatsheetseries.owasp.org/cheatsheets/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security_Cheat_Sheet.html)

-   OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for weak cryptography


## List of Mapped CWEs

CWE-261 Weak Encoding for Password

CWE-296 Improper Following of a Certificate's Chain of Trust

CWE-310 Cryptographic Issues

CWE-319 Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information

CWE-321 Use of Hard-coded Cryptographic Key

CWE-322 Key Exchange without Entity Authentication

CWE-323 Reusing a Nonce, Key Pair in Encryption

CWE-324 Use of a Key Past its Expiration Date

CWE-325 Missing Required Cryptographic Step

CWE-326 Inadequate Encryption Strength

CWE-327 Use of a Broken or Risky Cryptographic Algorithm

CWE-328 Reversible One-Way Hash

CWE-329 Not Using a Random IV with CBC Mode

CWE-330 Use of Insufficiently Random Values

CWE-331 Insufficient Entropy

CWE-335 Incorrect Usage of Seeds in Pseudo-Random Number Generator
(PRNG)

CWE-336 Same Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)

CWE-337 Predictable Seed in Pseudo-Random Number Generator (PRNG)

CWE-338 Use of Cryptographically Weak Pseudo-Random Number Generator
(PRNG)

CWE-340 Generation of Predictable Numbers or Identifiers

CWE-347 Improper Verification of Cryptographic Signature

CWE-523 Unprotected Transport of Credentials

CWE-720 OWASP Top Ten 2007 Category A9 - Insecure Communications

CWE-757 Selection of Less-Secure Algorithm During Negotiation
('Algorithm Downgrade')

CWE-759 Use of a One-Way Hash without a Salt

CWE-760 Use of a One-Way Hash with a Predictable Salt

CWE-780 Use of RSA Algorithm without OAEP

CWE-818 Insufficient Transport Layer Protection

CWE-916 Use of Password Hash With Insufficient Computational Effort
