2021/docs/A04_2021-Insecure_Design.md, before:

# A04:2021 – Insecure Design

## Factors

| CWEs Mapped | Max Incidence Rate | Avg Incidence Rate | Avg Weighted Exploit | Avg Weighted Impact | Max Coverage | Avg Coverage | Total Occurrences | Total CVEs |
|:-------------:|:--------------------:|:--------------------:|:--------------:|:--------------:|:----------------------:|:---------------------:|:-------------------:|:------------:|
| 40          | 24.19%             | 3.00%              | 6.46                 | 6.78                | 77.25%       | 42.51%       | 262,407           | 2,691      |

## Overview

A new category for 2021 focuses on risks related to design and
architectural flaws, with a call for more use of threat modeling, secure
design patterns, and reference architectures. Notable CWEs include
*CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information*,
*CWE-256: Unprotected Storage of Credentials*, *CWE-501: Trust Boundary
Violation*, and *CWE-522: Insufficiently Protected Credentials*.

## Description

Insecure design is a broad category representing many different
weaknesses, expressed as “missing or ineffective control design.”
Missing insecure design is where a control is absent. For example,
imagine code that should be encrypting sensitive data, but there is no
method. Ineffective insecure design is where a threat could be realized,
but insufficient domain (business) logic validation prevents the action.
For example, imagine domain logic that is supposed to process pandemic
tax relief based upon income brackets but does not validate that all
inputs are correctly signed and provides a much more significant relief
benefit than should be granted.

Secure design is a culture and methodology that constantly evaluates
threats and ensures that code is robustly designed and tested to prevent
known attack methods. Learn from mistakes and offer positive incentives 
to promote improvements. Secure design is neither an add-on nor a tool 
that you can add to a software. It requires a secure development
lifecycle, some form of secure design pattern or paved road component
library or tooling, and threat modeling. Reach out for your security 
specialists at the beginning of a software project to get accompaignet 
throughout the whole project and maintainance of your software.


## How to Prevent

-   Establish and use a secure development lifecycle with AppSec
    professionals to help evaluate and design security and
    privacy-related controls

-   Establish and use a library of secure design patterns or paved road
    ready to use components

-   Use threat modeling for critical authentication, access control,
    business logic, and key flows
    
-   Integrate plausibility checks at each tier of your application
    (from frontend to backend)

-   Write unit and integration tests to validate that all critical flows
    are resistant to the threat model. Compile use-cases *and* misuse-cases
    for each tier of your application.

-   Segregate tier layers on system and network layers depending on the 
    exposure and protection needs
    
-   Segregate tanants robustly by design throughout all tiers     
    
-   Limit ressource consumption by user or service    

## Example Attack Scenarios

**Scenario #1:** A credential recovery workflow might include “questions
and answers,” which is prohibited by NIST 800-63b, the OWASP ASVS, and
the OWASP Top 10. Questions and answers cannot be trusted as evidence of
identity as more than one person can know the answers, which is why they
are prohibited. Such code should be removed and replaced with a more
secure design.

**Scenario #2:** A cinema chain allows group booking discounts and has a
maximum of fifteen attendees before requiring a deposit. Attackers could
threat model this flow and test if they could book six hundred seats and
all cinemas at once in a few requests, causing a massive loss of income.

**Scenario #3:** A retail chain’s e-commerce website does not have
protection against bots run by scalpers buying high-end video cards to
resell auction websites. This creates terrible publicity for the video
card makers and retail chain owners and enduring bad blood with
enthusiasts who cannot obtain these cards at any price. Careful anti-bot
design and domain logic rules, such as purchases made within a few
seconds of availability, might identify inauthentic purchases and
rejected such transactions.

## References

-   [OWASP Cheat Sheet: Secure Design Principles](TBD)

-   [NIST – Guidelines on Minimum Standards for Developer Verification of Software](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2021/07/09/Developer%20Verification%20of%20Software.pdf)

-   [The Threat Modeling Manifesto](https://threatmodelingmanifesto.org)

-   [Awesome Threat Modeling](https://github.com/hysnsec/awesome-threat-modelling)

## List of Mapped CWEs

[CWE-73 External Control of File Name or Path](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/73.html)

[CWE-183 Permissive List of Allowed Inputs](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/183.html)

[CWE-209 Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/209.html)

[CWE-213 Exposure of Sensitive Information Due to Incompatible Policies](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/213.html)

[CWE-235 Improper Handling of Extra Parameters](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/235.html)

[CWE-256 Unprotected Storage of Credentials](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/256.html)

[CWE-257 Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/257.html)

[CWE-266 Incorrect Privilege Assignment](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/266.html)

[CWE-269 Improper Privilege Management](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/269.html)

[CWE-280 Improper Handling of Insufficient Permissions or Privileges](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/280.html)

[CWE-311 Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/311.html)

[CWE-312 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/312.html)

[CWE-313 Cleartext Storage in a File or on Disk](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/313.html)

[CWE-316 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/316.html)

[CWE-419 Unprotected Primary Channel](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/419.html)

[CWE-430 Deployment of Wrong Handler](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/430.html)

[CWE-434 Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/434.html)

[CWE-444 Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request Smuggling')](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/444.html)

[CWE-451 User Interface (UI) Misrepresentation of Critical Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/451.html)

[CWE-472 External Control of Assumed-Immutable Web Parameter](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/472.html)

[CWE-501 Trust Boundary Violation](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/501.html)

[CWE-522 Insufficiently Protected Credentials](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/522.html)

[CWE-525 Use of Web Browser Cache Containing Sensitive Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/525.html)

[CWE-539 Use of Persistent Cookies Containing Sensitive Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/539.html)

[CWE-579 J2EE Bad Practices: Non-serializable Object Stored in Session](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/579.html)

[CWE-598 Use of GET Request Method With Sensitive Query Strings](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/598.html)

[CWE-602 Client-Side Enforcement of Server-Side Security](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/602.html)

[CWE-642 External Control of Critical State Data](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/642.html)

[CWE-646 Reliance on File Name or Extension of Externally-Supplied File](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/646.html)

[CWE-650 Trusting HTTP Permission Methods on the Server Side](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/650.html)

[CWE-653 Insufficient Compartmentalization](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/653.html)

[CWE-656 Reliance on Security Through Obscurity](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/656.html)

[CWE-657 Violation of Secure Design Principles](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/657.html)

[CWE-799 Improper Control of Interaction Frequency](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/799.html)

[CWE-807 Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/807.html)

[CWE-840 Business Logic Errors](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/840.html)

[CWE-841 Improper Enforcement of Behavioral Workflow](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/841.html)

[CWE-927 Use of Implicit Intent for Sensitive Communication](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/927.html)

[CWE-1021 Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1021.html)

[CWE-1173 Improper Use of Validation Framework](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1173.html)

Commit message:

A04_2021-Insecure_Design: Extend Description
Description:
- Added subheadlines 
- Added Requirements and Resource Management (from Top10:2017)

2021/docs/A04_2021-Insecure_Design.md, after:

# A04:2021 – Insecure Design

## Factors

| CWEs Mapped | Max Incidence Rate | Avg Incidence Rate | Avg Weighted Exploit | Avg Weighted Impact | Max Coverage | Avg Coverage | Total Occurrences | Total CVEs |
|:-------------:|:--------------------:|:--------------------:|:--------------:|:--------------:|:----------------------:|:---------------------:|:-------------------:|:------------:|
| 40          | 24.19%             | 3.00%              | 6.46                 | 6.78                | 77.25%       | 42.51%       | 262,407           | 2,691      |

## Overview

A new category for 2021 focuses on risks related to design and
architectural flaws, with a call for more use of threat modeling, secure
design patterns, and reference architectures. Notable CWEs include
*CWE-209: Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information*,
*CWE-256: Unprotected Storage of Credentials*, *CWE-501: Trust Boundary
Violation*, and *CWE-522: Insufficiently Protected Credentials*.

## Description

Insecure design is a broad category representing many different
weaknesses, expressed as “missing or ineffective control design.”
Missing insecure design is where a control is absent. For example,
imagine code that should be encrypting sensitive data, but there is no
method. Ineffective insecure design is where a threat could be realized,
but insufficient domain (business) logic validation prevents the action.
For example, imagine domain logic that is supposed to process pandemic
tax relief based upon income brackets but does not validate that all
inputs are correctly signed and provides a much more significant relief
benefit than should be granted.

### Requirements and Resource Management
Collect and negotiate the business requirements for an application with 
the business, including the protection requirements with regard to 
confidentiality, authenticity, integrity and availability of all data assets,
and the expected business logic. Take into account how exposed your application
is going to be and if you need a segregation of tenants (additionally to access control).
Compile the technical requirements including functional and nonfunctional security requirements.
Plan and negotiate the budget that covers all aspects of design, build, testing and operation, 
including security activities.

### Secure Design
Secure design is a culture and methodology that constantly evaluates
threats and ensures that code is robustly designed and tested to prevent
known attack methods. Learn from mistakes and offer positive incentives 
to promote improvements. Secure design is neither an add-on nor a tool 
that you can add to a software. 

### Secure Development Lifecycle
It requires a secure development lifecycle, some form of 
secure design pattern or paved road component
library or tooling, and threat modeling. Reach out for your security 
specialists at the beginning of a software project to get accompaignet 
throughout the whole project and maintainance of your software.


## How to Prevent

-   Establish and use a secure development lifecycle with AppSec
    professionals to help evaluate and design security and
    privacy-related controls

-   Establish and use a library of secure design patterns or paved road
    ready to use components

-   Use threat modeling for critical authentication, access control,
    business logic, and key flows
    
-   Integrate plausibility checks at each tier of your application
    (from frontend to backend)

-   Write unit and integration tests to validate that all critical flows
    are resistant to the threat model. Compile use-cases *and* misuse-cases
    for each tier of your application.

-   Segregate tier layers on system and network layers depending on the 
    exposure and protection needs
    
-   Segregate tanants robustly by design throughout all tiers     
    
-   Limit ressource consumption by user or service    

## Example Attack Scenarios

**Scenario #1:** A credential recovery workflow might include “questions
and answers,” which is prohibited by NIST 800-63b, the OWASP ASVS, and
the OWASP Top 10. Questions and answers cannot be trusted as evidence of
identity as more than one person can know the answers, which is why they
are prohibited. Such code should be removed and replaced with a more
secure design.

**Scenario #2:** A cinema chain allows group booking discounts and has a
maximum of fifteen attendees before requiring a deposit. Attackers could
threat model this flow and test if they could book six hundred seats and
all cinemas at once in a few requests, causing a massive loss of income.

**Scenario #3:** A retail chain’s e-commerce website does not have
protection against bots run by scalpers buying high-end video cards to
resell auction websites. This creates terrible publicity for the video
card makers and retail chain owners and enduring bad blood with
enthusiasts who cannot obtain these cards at any price. Careful anti-bot
design and domain logic rules, such as purchases made within a few
seconds of availability, might identify inauthentic purchases and
rejected such transactions.

## References

-   [OWASP Cheat Sheet: Secure Design Principles](TBD)

-   [NIST – Guidelines on Minimum Standards for Developer Verification of Software](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2021/07/09/Developer%20Verification%20of%20Software.pdf)

-   [The Threat Modeling Manifesto](https://threatmodelingmanifesto.org)

-   [Awesome Threat Modeling](https://github.com/hysnsec/awesome-threat-modelling)

## List of Mapped CWEs

[CWE-73 External Control of File Name or Path](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/73.html)

[CWE-183 Permissive List of Allowed Inputs](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/183.html)

[CWE-209 Generation of Error Message Containing Sensitive Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/209.html)

[CWE-213 Exposure of Sensitive Information Due to Incompatible Policies](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/213.html)

[CWE-235 Improper Handling of Extra Parameters](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/235.html)

[CWE-256 Unprotected Storage of Credentials](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/256.html)

[CWE-257 Storing Passwords in a Recoverable Format](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/257.html)

[CWE-266 Incorrect Privilege Assignment](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/266.html)

[CWE-269 Improper Privilege Management](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/269.html)

[CWE-280 Improper Handling of Insufficient Permissions or Privileges](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/280.html)

[CWE-311 Missing Encryption of Sensitive Data](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/311.html)

[CWE-312 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/312.html)

[CWE-313 Cleartext Storage in a File or on Disk](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/313.html)

[CWE-316 Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information in Memory](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/316.html)

[CWE-419 Unprotected Primary Channel](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/419.html)

[CWE-430 Deployment of Wrong Handler](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/430.html)

[CWE-434 Unrestricted Upload of File with Dangerous Type](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/434.html)

[CWE-444 Inconsistent Interpretation of HTTP Requests ('HTTP Request Smuggling')](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/444.html)

[CWE-451 User Interface (UI) Misrepresentation of Critical Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/451.html)

[CWE-472 External Control of Assumed-Immutable Web Parameter](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/472.html)

[CWE-501 Trust Boundary Violation](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/501.html)

[CWE-522 Insufficiently Protected Credentials](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/522.html)

[CWE-525 Use of Web Browser Cache Containing Sensitive Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/525.html)

[CWE-539 Use of Persistent Cookies Containing Sensitive Information](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/539.html)

[CWE-579 J2EE Bad Practices: Non-serializable Object Stored in Session](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/579.html)

[CWE-598 Use of GET Request Method With Sensitive Query Strings](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/598.html)

[CWE-602 Client-Side Enforcement of Server-Side Security](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/602.html)

[CWE-642 External Control of Critical State Data](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/642.html)

[CWE-646 Reliance on File Name or Extension of Externally-Supplied File](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/646.html)

[CWE-650 Trusting HTTP Permission Methods on the Server Side](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/650.html)

[CWE-653 Insufficient Compartmentalization](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/653.html)

[CWE-656 Reliance on Security Through Obscurity](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/656.html)

[CWE-657 Violation of Secure Design Principles](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/657.html)

[CWE-799 Improper Control of Interaction Frequency](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/799.html)

[CWE-807 Reliance on Untrusted Inputs in a Security Decision](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/807.html)

[CWE-840 Business Logic Errors](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/840.html)

[CWE-841 Improper Enforcement of Behavioral Workflow](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/841.html)

[CWE-927 Use of Implicit Intent for Sensitive Communication](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/927.html)

[CWE-1021 Improper Restriction of Rendered UI Layers or Frames](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1021.html)

[CWE-1173 Improper Use of Validation Framework](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/1173.html)
