2017/en/0xA6-Disclosure.md, before:

# A6 Sensitive Data Exposure

| Threat agents | Exploitability | Prevalance | Detectability | Technical Impact | Business Impacts |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| App Specific |  EASY | COMMON | AVERAGE | SEVERE | App Specific | 
| TBA | TBA | TBA | TBA. | TBA |

## Am I vulnerable to attack?
The first thing you have to determine is which data is sensitive enough to require extra protection. For example, passwords, credit card numbers, health records, and personal information should be protected. For all such data:
* Is any of this data stored in clear text long term, including backups of this data?
* Is any data of a site transmitted in clear text, internally or externally? Internet traffic is especially dangerous.
* Are any old / weak cryptographic algorithms used? E.g. that may be provided by standard configs (see A5)
* Are default crypto keys in use, weak crypto keys generated, or is proper key management or rotation missing?
* Is encryption not enforced, e.g. are any (browser) security directives or headers missing?

And more … For a more complete set of problems to avoid, see ASVS areas Crypto (V7), Data Prot (V9), and SSL/TLS (V10).

## How do I prevent
Do the following, at a minimum and consult the references:
* Make sure you encrypt all sensitive data at rest or transferred via clients, e.g. cookies, tokens.
* Encrypt all data in transit on application layer at least if any sensitive data may be transferred, e.g using TLS. Enforce this using directives like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).
* Don’t store sensitive data unnecessarily. Discard it as soon as possible. Data you don’t retain can’t be stolen.
* Ensure up-to-date and strong standard algorithms or ciphers, parameters, protocols and keys are used, and proper key management is in place. Consider using FIPS 140 validated cryptographic modules.
* Ensure passwords are stored with a strong adaptive algorithm appropriate for password protection, such as Argon2i, scrypt, bcrypt and PBKDF2. Also be sure to set the work factor (delay factor) as high as you can tolerate.
* Disable autocomplete on forms requesting sensitive data and disable caching for pages that contain sensitive data.
* Verify independently the efficiency of your settings.


## Example Scenarios
Scenario #1: An application encrypts credit card numbers in a database using automatic database encryption. However, this data is automatically decrypted when retrieved, allowing an SQL injection flaw to retrieve credit card numbers in clear text. Alternatives include not storing credit card numbers, using tokenization, or using public key encryption.

Scenario #2: A site simply doesn’t use or enforce TLS for all pages, or if it supports weak encryption. An attacker simply monitors network traffic, strips or intercepts the TLS (like an open wireless network), and steals the user’s session cookie. The attacker then replays this cookie and hijacks the user’s (authenticated) session, accessing or modifying the user’s private data. Instead of the above he could also alter all transported data, e.g. the recipient of a money transfer.

Scenario #3: The password database uses unsalted hashes to store everyone’s passwords. A file upload flaw allows an attacker to retrieve the password database. All of the unsalted hashes can be exposed with a rainbow table of precalculated hashes.

## References

### OWASP

* [OWASP Proactive Controls - TBA]()
* [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard - TBA]()
* [OWASP Testing Guide - TBA]()
* [OWASP Cheat Sheet - TBA]()

### External

* CWE Entry 310 on Cryptographic Issues
* CWE Entry 312 on Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
* CWE Entry 319 on Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information
* CWE Entry 326 on Weak Encryption

Commit message:

Top Summary Table updated with reference to Issue #71
Security Weakness:
"... For data in transit server side weaknesses are mainly easy to detect, but hard for data in rest. Both with very varying exploitability. Browser weaknesses are easy to detect, but hard to exploit on a large scale."

2017/en/0xA6-Disclosure.md, after:

# A6 Sensitive Data Exposure

<!--- | Threat agents | Exploitability | Prevalance | Detectability | Technical Impact | Business Impacts |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| App Specific |  EASY | COMMON | AVERAGE | SEVERE | App Specific | 
| TBA | TBA | TBA | TBA. | TBA | --->

| Treat agents/Attack vector   | Security Weakness           | Impacts               |
| ---------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------- |
| Access Lvl \| Exploitability | Prevalance \| Detectability | Technical \| Business |
| Even anonymous attackers typically don’t break crypto directly. They break something else, such as steal keys, do man-in-the-middle attacks, or steal clear text data off the server, while in transit, or from the user’s browser. | The most common flaw is simply not encrypting sensitive data. When crypto is employed, weak key generation and management, and weak algorithm usage is common, particularly weak password hashing techniques. For data in transit server side weaknesses are mainly easy to detect, but hard for data in rest. Both with very varying exploitability. Browser weaknesses are easy to detect, but hard to exploit on a large scale. | Failure frequently compromises all data that should have been protected. Typically, this information includes sensitive data such as health records, credentials, personal data, credit cards, etc. The business impact depends on the protection needs of your application and data. |

## Am I vulnerable to attack?
The first thing you have to determine is which data is sensitive enough to require extra protection. For example, passwords, credit card numbers, health records, and personal information should be protected. For all such data:
* Is any of this data stored in clear text long term, including backups of this data?
* Is any data of a site transmitted in clear text, internally or externally? Internet traffic is especially dangerous.
* Are any old / weak cryptographic algorithms used? E.g. that may be provided by standard configs (see A5)
* Are default crypto keys in use, weak crypto keys generated, or is proper key management or rotation missing?
* Is encryption not enforced, e.g. are any (browser) security directives or headers missing?

And more … For a more complete set of problems to avoid, see ASVS areas Crypto (V7), Data Prot (V9), and SSL/TLS (V10).

## How do I prevent
Do the following, at a minimum and consult the references:
* Make sure you encrypt all sensitive data at rest or transferred via clients, e.g. cookies, tokens.
* Encrypt all data in transit on application layer at least if any sensitive data may be transferred, e.g using TLS. Enforce this using directives like HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS).
* Don’t store sensitive data unnecessarily. Discard it as soon as possible. Data you don’t retain can’t be stolen.
* Ensure up-to-date and strong standard algorithms or ciphers, parameters, protocols and keys are used, and proper key management is in place. Consider using FIPS 140 validated cryptographic modules.
* Ensure passwords are stored with a strong adaptive algorithm appropriate for password protection, such as Argon2i, scrypt, bcrypt and PBKDF2. Also be sure to set the work factor (delay factor) as high as you can tolerate.
* Disable autocomplete on forms requesting sensitive data and disable caching for pages that contain sensitive data.
* Verify independently the efficiency of your settings.


## Example Scenarios
Scenario #1: An application encrypts credit card numbers in a database using automatic database encryption. However, this data is automatically decrypted when retrieved, allowing an SQL injection flaw to retrieve credit card numbers in clear text. Alternatives include not storing credit card numbers, using tokenization, or using public key encryption.

Scenario #2: A site simply doesn’t use or enforce TLS for all pages, or if it supports weak encryption. An attacker simply monitors network traffic, strips or intercepts the TLS (like an open wireless network), and steals the user’s session cookie. The attacker then replays this cookie and hijacks the user’s (authenticated) session, accessing or modifying the user’s private data. Instead of the above he could also alter all transported data, e.g. the recipient of a money transfer.

Scenario #3: The password database uses unsalted hashes to store everyone’s passwords. A file upload flaw allows an attacker to retrieve the password database. All of the unsalted hashes can be exposed with a rainbow table of precalculated hashes.

## References

### OWASP

* [OWASP Proactive Controls - TBA]()
* [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard - TBA]()
* [OWASP Testing Guide - TBA]()
* [OWASP Cheat Sheet - TBA]()

### External

* CWE Entry 310 on Cryptographic Issues
* CWE Entry 312 on Cleartext Storage of Sensitive Information
* CWE Entry 319 on Cleartext Transmission of Sensitive Information
* CWE Entry 326 on Weak Encryption
