README.md, before:

# Top10

Official OWASP Top 10 Document Repository

## OWASP Top 10 2021 - RELEASED

Please log any [feedback, comments, or log issues](https://github.com/OWASP/Top10/issues) here.

## OWASP Top 10 2017 - SUPERSEDED

We have released the OWASP Top 10 - 2017 (Final)

- [OWASP Top 10 2017 (PPTX)](https://github.com/OWASP/Top10/blob/master/2017/OWASP%20Top%2010-2017%20(en).pptx)
- [OWASP Top 10 2017 (PDF)](https://github.com/OWASP/Top10/blob/master/2017/OWASP%20Top%2010-2017%20(en).pdf)

## OWASP Top 10 Leadership

There are currently four co-leaders for the OWASP Top 10. We meet every Friday at 1 pm US PDT to discuss the project. If you want to join that call, please contact us. It's really not that exciting.

- [Andrew van der Stock](mailto:vanderaj@owasp.org) (twitter: [@vanderaj](https://x.com/vanderaj))
- [Brian Glas](mailto:brian.glas@owasp.org) (twitter: [@infosecdad](https://x.com/infosecdad))
- [Neil Smithline](mailto:neil.smithline@owasp.org) (twitter: [@appsecneil](https://x.com/appsecneil))
- [Torsten Gigler](mailto:torsten.gigler@owasp.org) (twitter: [@torsten_tweet](https://x.com/torsten_tweet))

## OWASP Top 10 References

- [OWASP Top 10 Project Page](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten)
- [OWASP 2017 Summit Outcomes](https://owaspsummit.org/Outcomes/Owasp-Top-10-2017/Owasp-Top-10-2017.html)

Commit message:

[2025] Update OWASP Top 10 for 2025 Release - Documentation and Structure

README.md, after:

# Top10

Official OWASP Top 10 Document Repository

## OWASP Top 10 2025 - IN DEVELOPMENT

The OWASP Top 10 2025 is currently under development. We welcome community feedback and contributions.
Please log any [feedback, comments, or log issues](https://github.com/OWASP/Top10/issues) here.

## OWASP Top 10 2021 - CURRENT

The OWASP Top 10 2021 remains the current stable version until the 2025 release is finalized.

## OWASP Top 10 2017 - SUPERSEDED

We have released the OWASP Top 10 - 2017 (Final)

- [OWASP Top 10 2017 (PPTX)](https://github.com/OWASP/Top10/blob/master/2017/OWASP%20Top%2010-2017%20(en).pptx)
- [OWASP Top 10 2017 (PDF)](https://github.com/OWASP/Top10/blob/master/2017/OWASP%20Top%2010-2017%20(en).pdf)

## OWASP Top 10 Leadership

There are currently four co-leaders for the OWASP Top 10. We meet every Friday at 1 pm US PDT to discuss the project. If you want to join that call, please contact us. It's really not that exciting.

- [Andrew van der Stock](mailto:vanderaj@owasp.org) (twitter: [@vanderaj](https://x.com/vanderaj))
- [Brian Glas](mailto:brian.glas@owasp.org) (twitter: [@infosecdad](https://x.com/infosecdad))
- [Neil Smithline](mailto:neil.smithline@owasp.org) (twitter: [@appsecneil](https://x.com/appsecneil))
- [Torsten Gigler](mailto:torsten.gigler@owasp.org) (twitter: [@torsten_tweet](https://x.com/torsten_tweet))

## OWASP Top 10 References

- [OWASP Top 10 Project Page](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten)
- [OWASP 2017 Summit Outcomes](https://owaspsummit.org/Outcomes/Owasp-Top-10-2017/Owasp-Top-10-2017.html)
