2021/README.md, before:

# OWASP Top 10 2021

Final Release

## Building a local copy

- Install Python 3 for your platform
- From the main folder, ...

```bash
make install-python-requirements
```
### Prepare a local virtual environment to manage the versions of the required Python libraries for mkdocs

```bash$
# build and activate venv
cd 2021
python3 -m venv .
source ./bin/activate
# install all required library versions
pip install -r requirements.txt
# optionally verify if OWASP OSIB is in your pip list
pip list | grep osib
```
This installs all requirements including the (OSIB Macro)[https://github.com/OWASP/OSIB]

### Test it locally

You should test your changes locally:

```bash
cd 2021
mkdocs serve
```

Once you are happy, check in your changes as a branch / PR and let someone on the main team know. We'll review your changes, and merge and redeploy.

### Redeploy to gh-pages

This only works if you have commit privileges on master and Git is correctly setup in your environment.

```bash
cd 2021
mkdocs gh-deploy
```

### Translating the OWASP Top 10 2021

- Join the OWASP Slack and join the #top-10-translations channel. Let folks know what language you are doing. Someone might already be working on it.
- Fork and clone the Top 10 repo
- Follow the installation and local test instructions above
- Create a new branch for your language (something like 2021-fr)
- Add your translation to the plugin / navigation area in mkdocs.yml
- Test your translation locally by running a local server (see above)
- When you're ready, create a pull request against the OWASP Top 10 repo, and let us know it's ready for deployment

Commit message:

Add additional info if you get stuck with pip

2021/README.md, after:

# OWASP Top 10 2021

Final Release

## Building a local copy

- Install Python 3 for your platform
- From the main folder, ...

```bash
make install-python-requirements
```
### Prepare a local virtual environment to manage the versions of the required Python libraries for mkdocs

```bash$
# build and activate venv
cd 2021
python3 -m venv .
source ./bin/activate
# install all required library versions
pip install -r requirements.txt
# optionally verify if OWASP OSIB is in your pip list
pip list | grep osib
```

You might need to use ```--break-system-packages``` with pip if it gives you an error.

This installs all requirements including the (OSIB Macro)[https://github.com/OWASP/OSIB]

### Test it locally

You should test your changes locally:

```bash
cd 2021
mkdocs serve
```

Once you are happy, check in your changes as a branch / PR and let someone on the main team know. We'll review your changes, and merge and redeploy.

### Redeploy to gh-pages

This only works if you have commit privileges on master and Git is correctly setup in your environment.

```bash
cd 2021
mkdocs gh-deploy
```

gh-deploy works best if you have cloned the repository using ssh rather than https (which is the default for GitHub Desktop). Make sure you can authenticate to GitHub:

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

If that works, gh-deploy will work as well.

### Translating the OWASP Top 10 2021

- Join the OWASP Slack and join the #top-10-translations channel. Let folks know what language you are doing. Someone might already be working on it.
- Fork and clone the Top 10 repo
- Follow the installation and local test instructions above
- Create a new branch for your language (something like 2021-fr)
- Add your translation to the plugin / navigation area in mkdocs.yml
- Test your translation locally by running a local server (see above)
- When you're ready, create a pull request against the OWASP Top 10 repo, and let us know it's ready for deployment
